README.md, before:

# PROJECT 3
# THE DIVORCE PARTY GUEST BOOK
# By Chewing the CRUD

## DESCRIPTION
- A MERN Full-Stack Website that allows users to sign-up and read, post, edit and delete comments in a Divorce Party Guest Book.  

## WHY A DIVORCE Party GUESTBOOK? 
-Lots of people will experience their divorce as one of the best things that ever happened to them. Of course they
will want to celebrate. What better way to commemorate the celebration than with a Divorce Party Guestbook? 


## DEPLOYMENT LINK

- [The Divorce Party Guest Book](https://hpramanathan.github.io/project3-mernstack-app/).
- GitHub Repository: https://github.com/hpramanathan/project3-mernstack-app


## GETTING STARTED/CODE INSTALLATION


## TIMEFRAME & WORKING TEAM

- We were given 8 days to work on this project as a team of 4 members:
  - Benjamin Khoury
  - Franziska Kissling
  - Hari Ramanathan
  - Katie Loesch


## TECHNOLOGIES USED
- ### CODE VERSIONING/CONTROL

  - Git / GitHub
    - https://git-scm.com/
    - https://github.com/https://github.com/

- ### DEVELOPER TOOLS

  - Google Chrome and Google Chrome Developer Tools
    - https://www.google.com/intl/en_uk/chrome/
  - Mozilla Firefox and Mozilla Firefox Developer Tools
    - https://www.mozilla.org/en-GB/firefox/new/
  - Visual Studio Code
    - https://code.visualstudio.com/
  - Windows Subsystem for Linux
    - https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/install
  - Postman
    - https://www.postman.com/

- ### FRONT END

  - Netlify
    - https://www.netlify.com/
  - React Router
    - https://reactrouter.com/en/main
  - Tailwind CSS React
    - https://tailwindcss.com/docs/guides/create-react-app
  - bcyryptjs
    - https://www.npmjs.com/package/bcryptjs

- ### BACK END

  - Heroku
    - https://www.heroku.com/
  - MongoDB Atlas
    - https://www.mongodb.com/cloud/atlas/register
  - bcrypt
    - https://www.npmjs.com/package/bcrypt
  - CORS
    - https://www.npmjs.com/package/cors
  - dotenv
    - https://www.npmjs.com/package/dotenv
  - express
    - https://www.npmjs.com/package/express
  - jsonwebtoken
    - https://www.npmjs.com/package/jsonwebtoken
  - mongodb
    - https://www.npmjs.com/package/mongodb
  - mongoose
    - https://www.npmjs.com/package/mongoose
  - nodemon
    - https://www.npmjs.com/package/nodemon
  - passport
    - https://www.npmjs.com/package/passport
  - passport-jwt
    - https://www.npmjs.com/package/passport-jwt



- ### EXTERNAL WEB RESOURCES

  - icons
    - all icons used are Scalable Vector Graphics from iconify
    - https://iconify.design/


- ### FLOW CHART, USER STORIES AND WIREFRAME

  - Excalidraw
  - Lucid??


## PLANNING

- Blah blah


## BUILD/CODE PROCESS

- Blah blah


## CHALLENGES

- Seeding
- Authentication


## WINS

- Authentication
- Tailwind CSS
- Git conflicts


## KEY LEARNING/TAKEAWAYS

- Ba Ba Black Sheep


## BUGS

- Not insects 😂😂


## FUTURE IMPROVEMENTS

- Where to begin...

Commit message:

redundant files removal initial README updates

README.md, after:

# PROJECT 3
# THE DIVORCE PARTY GUEST BOOK
# By Chewing the CRUD

## DESCRIPTION
- A MERN Full-Stack Website that allows users to sign-up and read, post, edit and delete comments in a Divorce Party Guest Book.  

## WHY A DIVORCE Party GUESTBOOK? 
-Lots of people will experience their divorce as one of the best things that ever happened to them. Of course they
will want to celebrate with lots of friends and family. What better way to commemorate the celebration than with a Divorce Party Guestbook? 


## DEPLOYMENT LINK

- [The Divorce Party Guest Book](https://hpramanathan.github.io/project3-mernstack-app/).
- GitHub Repository: https://github.com/hpramanathan/project3-mernstack-app


## GETTING STARTED/CODE INSTALLATION


## TIMEFRAME & WORKING TEAM

- We were given 8 days to work on this project as a team of 4 members:
  - Benjamin Khoury
  - Franziska Kissling
  - Hari Ramanathan
  - Katie Loesch


## TECHNOLOGIES USED
- ### CODE VERSIONING/CONTROL

  - Git / GitHub
    - https://git-scm.com/
    - https://github.com/https://github.com/

- ### DEVELOPER TOOLS

  - Google Chrome and Google Chrome Developer Tools
    - https://www.google.com/intl/en_uk/chrome/
  - Mozilla Firefox and Mozilla Firefox Developer Tools
    - https://www.mozilla.org/en-GB/firefox/new/
  - Visual Studio Code
    - https://code.visualstudio.com/
  - Windows Subsystem for Linux
    - https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/install
  - Postman
    - https://www.postman.com/

- ### FRONT END

  - Netlify
    - https://www.netlify.com/
  - React Router
    - https://reactrouter.com/en/main
  - Tailwind CSS React
    - https://tailwindcss.com/docs/guides/create-react-app
  - bcyryptjs
    - https://www.npmjs.com/package/bcryptjs

- ### BACK END

  - Heroku
    - https://www.heroku.com/
  - MongoDB Atlas
    - https://www.mongodb.com/cloud/atlas/register
  - bcrypt
    - https://www.npmjs.com/package/bcrypt
  - CORS
    - https://www.npmjs.com/package/cors
  - dotenv
    - https://www.npmjs.com/package/dotenv
  - express
    - https://www.npmjs.com/package/express
  - jsonwebtoken
    - https://www.npmjs.com/package/jsonwebtoken
  - mongodb
    - https://www.npmjs.com/package/mongodb
  - mongoose
    - https://www.npmjs.com/package/mongoose
  - nodemon
    - https://www.npmjs.com/package/nodemon
  - passport
    - https://www.npmjs.com/package/passport
  - passport-jwt
    - https://www.npmjs.com/package/passport-jwt



- ### EXTERNAL WEB RESOURCES

  - icons
    - all icons used are Scalable Vector Graphics from iconify
    - https://iconify.design/


- ### FLOW CHART, USER STORIES AND WIREFRAME

The design was done in a meeting with all the members of the team. 
User stories, wireframes, a schema containing the models and a flowchart were produced during this session. These were consolidated into a README document. 

[README](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1cIHDD5IY5U9jJfRezuFAYF1JMcIhAnN69uqpn7qwLw8/edit)

This was  were provided to the tutors who reviewed these and approved the project. 


## PLANNING

The team met for half a day to align on the project concept, a schedule and coding approach. 

Decisions were made around the team name "Chewing the Crud" and on what type of app would be built, the Divorce Party Comments Book. 

Areas like the team members' strengths and weaknesses and values were discussed. 
This was captured within a Team Expectations Document stored on the team's shared drive. It was later shared with the course tutors. 

[Team Expectations Setting Document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1QG9nAynGNKvsSN4Jzfesn4T-DbXv5GxTEtXh-bZMAAM/edit)


## BUILD/CODE PROCESS

The project utilised the MERN Stack. As a first step a connection with the Mongo Database was established. A seed file was then produced to populate initial data into the database. 

Models were then established for the Users and Posts. Once the models were completed backend routes were coded. The routes were tested in Postman API Platform. 

After the backend routes were successfully tested the frontend routes were implemented.

The user authentication was developed using bcrypt for password hashing and Passport JWT for user authentication.  The authentication was integrated into the routes.

Github provided version control. To minimise merge conflicts commits and pulls were done frequently. 




## CHALLENGES

- Seeding
- Authentication


## WINS

- Authentication
- Tailwind CSS
- Git conflicts


## KEY LEARNING/TAKEAWAYS

- Ba Ba Black Sheep


## BUGS

- Not insects 😂😂


## FUTURE IMPROVEMENTS

- Create a file upload facility for user profile pictures and party pictures within a post. 
- Get quotes about divorce via an external API.
